Gaffling Validator
==================

Orienteering competitions (both individual and relays), often contain "gafflings". Each competitor (individual or team) should run same legs, but possibly in different order. 

Gafflings are often built manually or using some excel sheets. Even though course setters and supervisors are extremely careful on this stuff, "human factor" in the process causes mistakes by organizers every now and then. This has happened in huge competitions like Jukola and FinnSpring. 

This simple and easy to use validator app tries to add another layer of validation, by analyzing courses from the same data that gets imported into result software.

App currently supports formats file that are commonly used in finnish competitions aka Pirilä result software, but could be useful for other users as well. At least simple course-to-course comparisons are supported only with iof 2.x xml format and gaffling definitions are in easy to build CSV format. Only headers are in finnish...

A version of the app is freely available online at:
<http://matti.virtuallypreinstalled.com/gafflingvalidator/>

Downloadable, clickable jar file available:
https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/4041822/gafflingvalidator-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

App runs in server main memory only, thus it should be safe to use. Nothing is persisted to disk and even for server admin it would special require tricks and proper timing to use the data. Man-in-the-middle attack could theoretically be possible as the server uses plain http. If you can't trust your network, me or my server, see instructions below.

Technical stuff
===============

* CVS file format description: http://www.pirila.fi/ohj/vieohjeet/help/index.htm#page=3.2_Ilmoittautumisten_lukeminen_tiedostosta.htm
* The project is AGPL licenced: free to use, free for further open source development, free for making money with the app, non-free for commercial closed source development.
* Also for individual race, a simple "COMPETITORNUMBER;COURSEVARIATIONNAME" file format can be used. Also for individual race courses can simply be selected from list and compared manually.

Running locally/developing
--------------------------

If you wish to run app on your own machine or server, install Git (or download as zip), Java and Maven. Then run this command:

git clone https://github.com/mstahv/gafflingvalidator.git; cd gafflingvalidator; mvn jetty:run

Then open browser at <http://localhost:8080>

For development I suggest to import the Maven project into your favorite IDE.

Most model classes are autogenerated with jaxb from iof xml 2 dtd with minor changes (some toString methods).

